Let's go ahead and apply these concepts on a slightly more involved history, the example that we've
picked is the clustering of housing data.
So this is the housing data for California.
And we are going to take a look at real world data set for clustering.
The reason for that is if you try to do clustering on data, it's very easy and it doesn't really tell
you the importance of clustering and it doesn't really help you understand the concept fully.
So we are going to load these houses, data from this file data, slash houses and new houses, dot
CSFI and we are going to convert it into a data frame, just as we did previously.
So the columns that we have in this data set of longitude, latitude and the housing median age to rooms,
number of bedrooms, population.
So all of that.
So these are the columns that we have over here in this case study.
We are interested in the longitude and latitude, which essentially tell us where the house is within
the city and in the median income or median house value.
So we are trying to figure out where the more expensive houses are or where the rich people.
So do they live within this location?
So for this, we are going to use a library, which is very light.
So this is really useful for doing map based visualizations.
We want to actually look at the real world map and plot these values on that map instead of trying to
do this on a graph paper like visualization.
OK, so we are going to use the JSON package for reading the California county's information, which
we've downloaded, and it's available in the data folder.
We are going to use the Wagonlit and Vigor data sets for doing the maps and map based information.
If you don't have them installed, you can install them using these cells.
I already have them installed, so I'm just going to start using them.
We are going to read California County's Doges and file.
This essentially gives information about the shape of the map.
And then we are going to read this week adjacent dataset, essentially both of these combined.
Give us the information about the map that we want to draw.
OK, we don't have to draw them by hand.
We just have this dataset available.
And Julia has this functionality provided to you transparently.
So we done that.
And now we are going to use these real plot macros which are provided by the very light package.
And we are going to use the syntax of Wagonlit to do the plotting.
Now, since we are not really interested in whether I am providing the syntax over here, you can just
look at this and try experimenting with this to get a better understanding.
But this really isn't our concern.
What does concern us are these lines over here.
So we'll see what these are in a minute.
But just for the sake of completeness, we are going to put the marks which are going to represent houses
on top of the map.
So we are going to have a geographical shape.
It's going to have the fill of black and the stroke of white.
And the data that we are going to show it is the county data that we have over here.
So all of these are coming from this dataset.
Get the actual plot is overlaid.
The housing data is overlaid on top of this map using the plus and add real plot index.
Each house is going to be plotted using a circle.
The data is going to come from the houses.
Data frame that we have up above the latitude and longitude are going to define the location of the
circle.
The size is going to be at twelve and the color is going to be representing the median house value that
we have over here.
OK, so let's just run this to see what it looks like and that makes sense.
So you might get some warnings over here.
It's not really all that important.
It doesn't affect the output.
Just notice that this syntax is not Julia.
This is begger.
And it's not really our concern.
We're just using it for the actual output of the plot.
So this is what looks like a black map, white strokes and the houses are over here.
So the more expensive houses are in darker color.
So they are over here and the least expensive houses are in lighter color and they are slightly away
from the beachfront.
So this over here on the west is the beachfront and the more expensive houses are on that beachfront.
Right.
So it makes sense.
What we are trying to do now is cluster these values using two different methods.
One is going to be simple budgeting.
So we are going to take this whole range and we are going to split it into one hundred thousand sized
buckets.
So from zero to one hundred thousand is going to be one bucket from hundred thousand.
Two hundred thousand is going to be another bucket.
So we are going to have five buckets over here and we are going to instead of putting all these individual
houses which don't really tell us the spread, we are going to put them into five different buckets.
So let's go ahead and first convert the data into buckets.
So we are going to build this piece by piece.
So look at this piece first.
What this does is it goes into the housing data frame.
It retrieves all the rows.
So you would recall that for all the rows we use the column.
But what the color does is it gives you a.
Copy of the data back, we don't want to create a copy because this might be a very large data set and
we want to just use the data.
So this is going to be a view into the same structure.
It's not going to create a copy.
And for that, we use the exclamation mark.
So and Rita Cosby exclamation mark just gives you a view.
You can look at it, but it will not be copied in memory.
OK, so it's a lot more efficient.
You can use Colen as well.
It won't affect it, but it's going to jog the memory down.
The column that we're interested in is the median house value.
So what this does is it gives us the median house values of all the houses.
That's it.
Then we go ahead and apply the divide function and we divide it by one hundred thousand except divide
function works on two scalar values, so we have to broadcast it.
So it's going to essentially divide all the values by a hundred thousand.
After that we convert it into an integer and again we have to broadcast it because integer works on
individual scalar values.
So essentially we take the housing median value of one data point divided by 100000 and convert it into
an integer and that essentially gives us a value between zero and five.
That makes sense.
So take, for instance, the value of one hundred thousand divided by a hundred thousand.
That gives us one point zero and convert it into an integer.
This is going to be one.
OK, so these are the values that we get for three three three two zero one and so on.
The extreme martellus that we are going from zero to five.
That makes sense as well.
Now we are going to insert these into the data that we have.
So we are going to use the insert called function.
We are going to insert into the houses.
Data from the index of the column is going to be three.
The name of the column is going to be surprised and the actual values are going to come from this structure
that we just created.
OK.
So once we do that, our houses data is going to look like they saw one, two and three.
This is surprise.
This column has just been inserted based on the values that we had in the bucket price.
OK, so we have these over here.
Let's go ahead and plot these using the exact same code.
Except now we are using see price as the color.
And this end means that this is an integer value, not a quantitative value anymore.
So there you go.
So if you get the same warnings and by doing this, we are going to get an output and this is going
to be sort of a clustering.
So this is a very basic clustering.
It's not very efficient, but it works.
So it tells us that the zero prices are way over here.
And then these guys are slightly more expensive.
And the most expensive ones, which are in five, are again on the beachfront.
So same data, but now it's in buckets.
So a lot more easier to understand.
So this visualization is slightly better than this visualization.
We can go ahead and do a typical clustering using Kamins.
So again, because this is a case study, we are using Cayman's.
You can use another method as well, but gaming's is the most common.
So let's go ahead and do that.
This comes from the clustering package.
So we're going to do using clustering.
We are going to drop the missing values because gaming's does not work with missing values.
We are going to do that.
And then.
We are going to do the clustering based on the median house values again, so same thing.
You go to housing data frame, you get all the rules, and from that you get just the median house value
column.
OK, and because we have eight exclamation mark over here, we are going to select in place.
No copy is going to be created.
So that is what we get.
Index.
So now index.
We have twenty thousand give or take values.
The problem is that this, as you can see, is a column.
So two zero four three three rows and just one column.
So it's vertically aligned and it's a column gaming's as it is in the library, requires a row vector.
So we are going to convert it using the matrix function.
So first it's going to be converted into a matrix and then we take the transpose and we get the row
vector back.
So this is just data wrangling to make sure that it works with our library.
And we are going to call means give it this data and tell it to sort it into five buckets.
So that's all you need for clustering.
You get the values out.
OK, now you can go ahead and insert these values into your houses dataset just as before.
And this time we are going to collect and squawky.
So we have this over here cluster in this cookie.
And these are the cluster values.
As you can see, these are slightly different from the C price values that we got, but they have essentially
the same purpose.
We are going to plot this and this time the color is going to be based on the gaming's cluster.
So once you do that.
You get a very similar plot out, but K means clustering looks slightly better, so you get a much more
real world representation of the clusters that you have.
So these are the slightly mid-range things and the more expensive ones are over here, as you can see.
OK, so hopefully this gave you a good idea about how to do clustering.
The actual clustering is just this one line over here.
So just this one line.
Give it a raw vector and it works out of the box.
And the rest of the stuff is just data wrangling to make sure that our data works with the clarity that
we have over here.
So hopefully this made sense.
In the next video, we are going to go into a slightly more interesting example, which is classification.
And after that, we are going to move on to the most popular aspect of Julia, which is machine learning.